Special Investigatioins Unit logo
The Unit
The Unit
What We Can Investigate
Investigative Process
Our Staff
SIU General and Operational Policies
Legislation
Shaping Civilian Oversight
Media Centre
Media Centre
News Releases
Status of SIU Cases
Breakdown of Occurrences
SIU on X
Email Alerts - News Releases
Media Contact
Access to Information
FAQs
Case Numbers
Public Reports
Public Reports
Director's Reports
SIU Annual Report 2024-2025
Analysis of Special Investigations Unit Race-Based Data
The SIU and Race-based Data Collection, Backgrounder
SIU Director's Expense Report
Brochures
2025/26 – 2027/28 Special Investigations Unit Business Plan
Accessibility Multi-Year Plan
SIU-MAG Memorandum of Understanding
Programs and Services
Programs and Services
Affected Persons Program
Outreach Program
Director's Resource Committee
First Nations, Inuit and Métis Liaison Program
Race-Based Data Collection
Accessibility
Careers
Contact Us
I Have Been Seriously Injured
I've Witnessed an Incident
SIU Outreach Request
Contact Us
Video/Photo Uploads
Useful Links

HOME
PUBLIC REPORTS
Director's Report Details
PUBLIC REPORTS

Public Reports
Director's Reports
SIU Annual Report 2024-2025
Analysis of Special Investigations Unit Race-Based Data
The SIU and Race-based Data Collection, Backgrounder
SIU Director's Expense Report
Brochures
2025/26 – 2027/28 Special Investigations Unit Business Plan
Accessibility Multi-Year Plan
SIU-MAG Memorandum of Understanding
SIU Director's Report - Case # 17-PVI-371

Warning:
This page contains graphic content that can shock, offend and upset.
Contents:

Mandate of the SIU
Information restrictions
Mandate engaged
The Investigation
Incident Narrative
Evidence
Relevant Legislation
Analysis and Director's Decision
News Releases for this Case:
No Basis to Charge OPP Officer in Relation to Bonfield Collision
French:
Director's Report for Case # 17-PVI-371.

Mandate of the SIU

The Special Investigations Unit is a civilian law enforcement agency that investigates incidents involving police officers where there has been death, serious injury or allegations of sexual assault. The Unit's jurisdiction covers more than 50 municipal, regional and provincial police services across Ontario.

Mandate engaged

This report relates to the SIU's investigation into the serious injury sustained by a 25-year-old woman involved in a collision with a police vehicle.

The Investigation

Notification of the SIU

At approximately 8:03 p.m. on Friday, December 22, 2017, the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) notified the SIU of the serious injury sustained by the Complainant.

The OPP reported a motor vehicle collision (MVC) involving an OPP cruiser at the intersection of Highway 17 and Trout Pond Road in the Township of Bonfield. The collision occurred at 5:30 p.m., when the SO, who was travelling eastbound on Highway 17, collided with the Complainant, who was turning left from Trout Pond Road to go west toward North Bay. Also in the Complainant's vehicle were CW #1 and a second passenger. All parties including the officer went to hospital for examination.

At 11:38 p.m., the OPP advised that the only injury was to the Complainant, who had been diagnosed with two fractured ribs.

The Team

Number of SIU Investigators assigned:                 2
Number of SIU Forensic Investigators assigned:         1
Number of SIU Collision Reconstructionist assigned:     1 (peer reviewed the report authored by the OPP Reconstructionist)

Complainant:

25-year-old female interviewed, medical records obtained and reviewed

Civilian Witnesses

CW #1             Interviewed
CW #2             Interviewed
CW #3             Failed to attend for pre-arranged interview or to respond to voicemail messages left thereafter

Witness Officers

There were no police officers witness to the incident.

Subject Officers

The SO             Interviewed, notes received and reviewed

Incident Narrative

On December 22, 2017 at approximately 5:15 p.m., the Complainant was operating a Buick motor vehicle northbound on Trout Pond Road in the Township of Bonfield.

Nature of Injuries / Treatment

The Complainant was examined at hospital and diagnosed with fractures to the 10th and 11th ribs on the left side.

Relevant Legislation

Section 249, Criminal Code -- Dangerous operation of motor vehicles
Section 128, Highway Traffic Act – Rate of speed
Section 136, Highway Traffic Act – Stop at through highway
Section 141 (5), Highway Traffic Act – Left turn, across path of approaching vehicle

Analysis and Director's Decision

On December 22, 2017, at 4:50:35 p.m., a 911 call was received by the Ontario Provincial Police (OPP) communications centre.

In conclusion, having considered all of the evidence, since I lack the necessary grounds for the laying of criminal charges, none shall issue.

Date: October 18, 2018

Original signed by

Tony Loparco
Director
Special Investigations Unit
